You're like, what are you talking about?
Sitting on ready.
I'm going to reveal it to you here in just a few minutes.
We're going to be in Matthew chapter three this morning.
Now you go ahead and turn over there if you'd like to, but it's talking about sitting on ready.
Matthew chapter three, we'll look at verses one to 12.
I pray that this morning that the music has been uplifting to you.
I pray that the candle lighting all acquire special, everything, the prayer time.
All that we have done this morning has been uplifting to you.
But I pray more so that it's been uplifting to Jesus Christ because that's who we're here to worship and who we're here to pray.
So I'm excited this morning about what he's going to do during this message.
We're going to continue with this Advent sort of mini series, I guess, is what we're doing.
We're patterning some
messages around our advent candle last week we talked about the the first candle which was hope and today we're going to be talking about the second candle and Emma has talked to us about that is called the peace candle some people call it the Bethlehem candle while others call it the candle of preparation we're going to be looking really at all three of these names this morning placing some special emphasis on today
talking about the candle of preparation.
So we're going to be looking at it from that viewpoint.
So if you have your Bibles and I pray you do, I hope that you've already turned there.
But if you have in this chapter three of Matthew versus one to 12, you got to say, I got it.
Stand with me.
Let's read together this morning.
Here's what Matthew has to say.
He says, in those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea saying, repent for the kingdom of heaven has come.
near.
This is who was spoken of through the prophet Isaiah, a voice of one calling in the wilderness, prepare the way for the Lord, make straight paths for him.
John's clothes were made of camels hair and he had a leather belt around his waist.
His food was locust wild honey.
People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea and the whole region of the Jordan, confessing their sins.
They were baptized by him in the Jordan River.
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to where he was baptizing, he said to them, you brood of vipers.
Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Produced fruit in keeping with repentance.
And did I think you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father.
I tell you that out of these stones, God could raise up children for Abraham.
The axe is already at the root of the trees and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.
I baptize you with water for repentance, but after me comes one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry.
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
His winnowing fork is in his hand and he will clear his threshing floor, gathering his wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fireless
pray together.
Lord, again, thank you for this passage of Scripture that we have.
We're just grateful, Lord, that we get to take a look at this together, to be able to read it and just try our best to understand what we're being told here.
So Lord, just bless us in a mighty way.
Just preach through me, Lord, so that your words are heard.
And we give you thanks from what you're going to do through these.
And Jesus, we pray.
Amen.
May be seated.
Thank you.
If you'll notice today, I'm trying something a little different.
Our glasses that I have been wearing, I believe, is contributing to this rash that you may have noticed.
And so I've tried a few things, haven't been able to get rid of it.
So that's kind of my last resort here.
So I put my readers back on and they're not working all that well.
So y'all pray for me today.
I do have my notes are in large print.
So they always are even with the glasses.
So but anyway, what was that?
You, that's it, large print, that's right.
Gotta have it.
But this morning as I do look around, I can't see some, but as I look around the sanctuary this morning in four or another place, as I see these nativity sets.
If y'all notice those, we have a nice one, really, really nice one here.
We have really, really nice one in there, and they're kind of sprinkled around
The facility here so that people can see them and keep keep taking a look at that It's part of what we do.
This is what we think that the Nativity back in the days on when Jesus walked the earth that we're you know We're thinking that this could have possibly been Sort of what it looked like so this is kind of why we do this but it follows the line of scripture this Nativity does it shows Mary it shows Jesus that shows the baby Jesus the shepherds and and so on you know the story course the wise men came and
later, but they're always portrayed in that as well.
But we know the story there, but we know this.
Jesus came in the world for the reason of dwelling among us.
We know that that's the reason, one of the reasons that he came.
And there was a series of events that this nativity that we take a look at.
basing it on what we know the Scripture says.
When we take a look at this, we believe that this could have been very close to what it may have looked like.
And when we think about the series of events that put this nativity into place, it was all prepared by God Himself.
You ever really given that much thought?
He prepared this for us.
And many of us that are here today
We're parents, we're grandparents, and we know what it's like to get prepared to have a new child in the house, a new baby in the house.
There's a lot that goes into that.
Many things have to happen before the baby can actually come home.
When I think of how all of that happens and how overwhelmed we might feel as parents and even grandparents at times, I like to stop and think about how God actually put into place everything that we know about this child that would be brought in to the world in this way.
this piece of history that we call the Nativity.
Think about the preparation that God made for that.
Think of this with me.
The angels were ready.
Each star had had found its place in the sky.
It was in the exact right place that it should have been.
Everything was there.
The census had been established.
All of this was put in line so that the right people would be placed at the right place
at the right time and we're talking about the city of Bethlehem here.
This young teenage girl named Mary and this common carpenter known as Joseph, they traveled to Bethlehem because they had gotten a notice about this census that they had to deal with.
All the hotels were filled, we know this.
There was no place for them to stay, that Mary was very close to giving birth
the time had drawn near.
The only place that was available to them was what we might call a manger or some may call it a stable.
We've called it all of these kinds of things and in all likelihood, it could have been a cave of some kind.
If we're just getting real with it, it could have been something of that nature as well.
But whatever it was, it was really no place to be birthing a child.
You wouldn't think there were no hospitals, there were no
IVs, there was certainly no epidurals.
So she was on her own in this foreign place to be able to do this.
It was an out of the ordinary place to stay.
But there was absolutely nothing that was ordinary about this pregnancy that she had with this child.
It was all unordinary or inordinate.
But this history, this unordinary event in history changed
the lives of everyone who was there that night and everyone who was here today and all that will be here forever more it changed the world Jesus left his heavenly home he came into this world to dwell among us and we call this event Christmas that's what we call it is Jesus came to us in human form think of this he came here to live as
a man and to give us an opportunity for this peace that our candle this morning represents.
Luke gives us his account of this in chapter two.
We're going to look at this on our journey towards Christmas as we go further through through this road.
Going to look at this for that.
But today I want to zero in on more of the preparation that Emma read to us about.
It comes from our text this morning.
Now part of God's preparation was to send this herald.
Everybody say herald.
You know what a herald is?
That's somebody who comes and speaks.
He's a herald.
God sent this man.
He sent a man named John.
We know him as John the baptizer or John the Baptist.
We might recognize him also.
It's what we consider him to be as the forerunner for Jesus Christ.
He came first.
He would go ahead of Jesus to pave the road, prepare the way for Jesus to come.
Jesus are going to eventually make himself known, but until that time, John was paving this road for him.
Now, just to remind you for 400 years between the Old Testament and the New Testament, there was silence from heaven.
God had not spoken to anyone in that 400 year period between the Old and the New Testament.
In the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, we see that this John, the Baptist appeared and announced that this change was forthcoming.
Now, this is how God made a decision to prepare the world for the coming of Jesus Christ.
In his preparation that he orchestrated everything that we know about this biblical account of what we call Christmas.
It wasn't by mistake.
It didn't happen out of nowhere.
It wasn't happenstance.
No, God was in complete control and He still is today.
The way that He used John the Baptist was instrumental in the way that Jesus was introduced to the world then and is still known to the world even today.
When I think of my own life,
I can't help but just take a look back and see the ways that God has used me and used others.
And I can sometimes see the way that he uses all of us, each and every one of us that are here today.
God uses his children.
And I see how he does that.
And I've seen God show up in times and in ways in which I had no idea how he was getting ready to do his work.
You've been there too.
I didn't know how God might use me, but here's what I've learned over these years.
I've learned to trust the fact that the God is going to use me and he's going to work out ways that he wants to do that, whether he chooses to use me or not.
He's going to have his will in his way.
Preparing us, getting us ready, being sitting already is nothing new for God.
This is something that he has always done.
He is always working
on us.
I remember the old Hymnfield song.
He's still working on me.
To make me what I ought to be.
Took him just a week to make the moon and stars.
The sun and the earth and Jupiter and Mars.
How lovely and patient he must be.
Because he's still working on me.
And I'm glad that he is.
Just as he used this young teenage virgin girl named Mary.
Think of this.
Just as he also used this barren woman named Elizabeth to give birth to this man known as John the Baptist.
Listen, if he can do that, he can use all of us, amen?
And he does.
He's preparing us right now for all that he has for us to do, whether it's today, tomorrow or later.
Look with me at the Gospel of Luke chapter 1.
Verses 36 and 37, there's an angel of the Lord that's explaining something here.
to Mary.
Listen to what the angel said.
He said, even Elizabeth, your relative is going to have a child in her old age.
And she who was said to be unable to conceive is in her six month for no word from God will ever fail.
And I also like the way the new King James version lists that for us it says, for with God, what does it say?
Nothing is impossible.
Isn't that a blessing to know?
that we serve a God who makes all things possible.
You see, Jesus and John, as children, as they grew up together, they were only six months apart.
According to the scripture, we know that Elizabeth was six months along when Mary discovered she was pregnant.
So we know that there was a six month gap.
They were related.
Notice all of this.
There's no coincidence here.
There is multifaceted
preparation that God the Father made to make all of this possible for us.
God was putting the right people in the right place at the right time.
These two men, Jesus and John, they would grow up.
John would prepare the way for Jesus, the Messiah.
His message was simple.
His message was concise.
His message was clear.
He was preaching to all who would listen that they needed to do something.
They needed to repent of their sins.
and be on the lookout for the one who is much more powerful than he is.
He wanted them to be prepared to meet someone by the name of Jesus.
It's interesting that Matthew described John all the way down to the way that he dressed, all the way down to what he ate, what he drank.
We have a complete synopsis here of who John was.
John wasn't likely very much to look at, I wouldn't think.
Probably a lot like me.
Wasn't a whole lot to look at.
But for some reason, he reminded the people back then of the prophet Isaiah.
Despite his appearance, despite his diet, he was still kind of a people magnet, people flocked to him.
His message was also like Isaiah's as well.
They both demanded change.
They both preached about repentance.
Notice what he says in verse two.
He says, Repent for the kingdom of heaven has come near.
Now repentance.
Now we've heard this term.
We've used the term repentance probably time and time again.
Many times we have talked about repenting and what it means to repent.
And I believe that we know what it means.
Repent is simply means to change one's mind.
That's what repent actually means.
And then once you changed your mind, you have to act on the change.
You've repented, so now you're turning away from it.
It means to ask God for complete forgiveness and then to turn away from the sin that you are actually repenting of.
If we will do this, there's a result.
Verse eight says, produce fruit.
See this?
Produce fruit in keeping with
Repentance you see when we ask forgiveness of our sin whenever we ask the Lord to forgive us for any wrongdoing that we may be doing or have done It removes this sin barrier That is placed between us and God It's what sin does it creates a barrier between us and
And God, we will see a change in our lives.
If we remove this barrier, we will begin to want to do more and more to enhance the kingdom of God if we repent for these sins.
We'll begin to tell others about what Jesus has done for us, giving our testimony and then also telling each other what Jesus can do for them.
What a blessing it is to be able to do that.
This is producing fruit for the very kingdom of God.
When we're producing fruit, we'll not only have evidence of where we have changed the mind, we will also show our evidence of where we have a completely changed life.
Listen, I have seen firsthand the fruit of a sinner who has repented.
Have you?
Have you seen that first?
Maybe you've seen it in your own life.
But I have seen this firsthand, this transformation
that happens in some that have repented for their sin and began to start walking with Jesus.
I can't help but get excited when I think about folks that I know personally who have changed their minds and have changed their hearts and their entire outlook on life because of what Jesus has done for them.
Man, I get excited about that.
I hope that you do.
I can't help but get excited when I see a lost person.
Repent of their sins and come to know Jesus Christ.
It's their Savior.
Don't be all long to see that.
That's what we ought to be looking for.
And I've seen it.
It thrills my heart to see their excitement and not only their excitement, but this relief that you can just see all over their body language as God has he has forgiven them where they have repented for their sin.
They've left this old life behind.
And they have joined in with Jesus Christ for a new life in him and he is helping them prepare their future with him.
And you just imagine the scene at the Jordan River when John was there baptizing.
You ever really pictured that?
I'm a visual guy.
Think about stuff like that.
You ever thought about that?
What did it look like that day at the Jordan River when John was baptizing?
The number of people that he delivered this message to is a herald for Jesus.
I've read books that says it could have been in the hundreds of thousands.
Now, I don't know, but there was a lie.
However you want to say it, people were coming from near.
They were coming from far to watch this man and to exercise what they had heard about by being repented because the kingdom of heaven is at hand and being baptized in the name of the following, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
we have baptism here and most of the time there some family members that come there in attendance and I could just only imagine what this may have looked like at the Jordan River as John was baptizing one right after the other and he was doing this he was doing his best to be able to to put the message of the gospel not only in their heads but in their hearts so that they would trust Jesus as their Savior he was trying to get them prepared
for Jesus.
Now there were some who would come to see John the Baptist, but they were coming for different reasons.
We see the scriptures tell us about the Pharisees and the Sadducees.
He addressed them as a brood of vipers.
You see that?
That's pretty harsh.
A brood of vipers.
You've had anybody call you a viper?
I hope not.
But they were not looking for what John was offering.
In fact, they were opposed to this Jesus at every turn.
They wanted nothing to do with him other than to shut it down.
They were hearing this message, but they were choosing to ignore the message.
And too often, listen, I believe that this might be where the world is today.
I believe that we deal with this even now too often.
I also believe that the church at large.
Well, that might be where the church at large is as well.
They're those that represent the church well as followers of Jesus Christ with great sincerity and a complete change in their lives while others hear the gospel, but they don't act on the gospel.
I have a tremendous burden for who John referred to as a brood of vipers even in our world today.
They're, they're just missing the point.
They're just missing the point.
They might be on their way to missing heaven unless they repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
We don't want them to miss heaven.
Listen, church, and you may know this, but it is a dangerous thing to ignore Jesus Christ.
It's a dangerous thing.
That's something that we shouldn't ought to do.
It's a dangerous thing to not take sin seriously.
Do we take sin seriously?
Do we in our own lives?
Do we look at that and say that sin and I need to turn away from it and I need to repent so that the Lord, I don't have a barrier between me and Jesus.
It burdens my heart to know that people that I love are living in sin and thinking all is well.
But let me tell you so the Bible says that if we're living in sin with no remorse, no repentance, then all is not well.
Isn't all it's not well the Bible is plain when it says that we must repent and turn away from our sin And this morning is immolent our candle it represents preparation This is we're talking about this today.
It represents peace it represents
true peace.
And if we want to have true peace in our lives, if the sin in our lives is weighing us down, we cannot have that true peace.
Can't have it.
If that sin has to weigh to the world on your shoulders.
You see, Christian, there's no way that you can be having a true peace when you're separated from God, when you have this barrier there.
This is what sin does.
It puts that barrier there between you and God.
And God can't look at it.
God can't tolerate it.
It's only through the blood of Jesus Christ that we even remotely stay close to God because of what Jesus did.
We must repent and remove that wedge of sin that is between us.
So when Jesus arrived,
We know that he met up with John the Baptist.
He was baptized by John the Baptist.
We know this.
He wasn't baptized because he needed to be forgiven of anything.
Jesus lived a perfect and sinless life.
There was nothing there that he needed to do, but he was baptized to fulfill the will of his father in heaven.
This baptism of Jesus validated the ministry of John the Baptist.
And by Jesus being baptized, he also identified himself with all of us, the people that he came here to actually save from our sin.
His baptism being fully immersed in water is the reason that we baptized this way even today.
The baptism of Jesus being fully immersed in water
represented also his future baptism on the cross where the world would completely engulf him.
The world would engulf him and would consume him with waves of judgment from God of our sins.
It would consume him even though he was completely innocent of everything.
When it was time for Jesus to die on the cross, he did so.
so that we could be forgiven of our sins and have an opportunity to have eternal life through Jesus.
He did this so that we can begin to make these preparations now to accept Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior and to tell as many people as we can about the redeeming love of Jesus.
So we let this candle this morning, it should be a reminder to all of us what we should be doing
until we do meet Jesus face to face.
We should be preparing.
We should be making that way.
We should be putting our house in order.
Let me ask you, Christian, are you prepared?
Are you sitting on ready?
Are you prepared?
Do you have peace in your heart and in your life knowing that you are prepared?
This isn't any different for all of us.
John DeBambis had a job.
What was his job?
Well, he had a responsibility to pave the way for Jesus, to point lost people to Jesus, to be saved.
This is our job too.
So different.
This is our responsibility.
We should be preparing ourselves and we must be doing everything that we can to help others prepare to meet Jesus as well.
So as we close this morning, let me ask you a question.
Are you packed and ready to go?
Are you prepared?
Do you have peace in your own heart knowing that you are prepared to meet Jesus?
face to face.
Is there a sin in your life?
Multiple sins, pet sins, however you identify it within your life.
Is there anything right there right now that has created a sin wedge?
Is it there?
Is it costing you the peace
that you need in your life.
Whatever the sin is, it might be in your life.
Listen, I want you to understand this.
Whatever that sin may be, it's not bigger than the God who can forgive us of it.
God is in control.
Ask him to forgive you.
And as Emma read this morning, ask him to make your crooked ways straight.
Christmas is almost here.
That's hard to believe.
But it is.
Christmas is coming.
And I want you to know this because you don't have to spend your Christmas this year being unprepared.
You don't have to spend it that way.
You don't have to spend your Christmas without peace this year.
Your peace comes from the Lord.
He won't should have it all.
We can have peace through the love of Jesus Christ.
If we will only say yes to Him.
Will you do that today?
Every head bowed, every eye closed.
This morning, perhaps you're hearing and you may have
a better understanding now after hearing what the Bible says about peace and about preparation.
You might understand a little better now why you may be struggling with a little peace in your life.
It could be a couple of reasons.
Number one, you might not know Jesus is your Savior.
Number two, you may know Jesus is your Savior, but there's sin in your life that's creating
unpeaceful situations for you.
Either way, Jesus is for you, and He wants you to live in peace today.
He wants you to be completely prepared for Him in His return.
He wants you to help others be prepared for His return.
Are we willing to do that?
Our authors open this morning.
You are welcome to come and pray.
I'd be happy to pray with you if you'd like.
But you come this morning as the Lord leads.
You can stand to your feet and you come this morning.
It's got to be able to stand again.